Chinese language
The Chinese language is the language used by Chinese in China and elsewhere. It forms one of the groups of a language family called the Sino-Tibetan family of languages. Chinese is the most spoken language in the world.
Chinese can refer to the written or the spoken languages. Chinese is special because although there are many spoken languages, they use only one way of writing the language. Therefore, it is possible to communicate by writing the same way. Many people in China think that although these different languages sound different, they are still one language. They call these different languages "fang yan" to tell them apart from one another. ("Fang" means "part of the country" and "yan" means "speech," so literally it means "the speech of one part of the country.")
They have one standard language for all of the schools in China and Taiwan. It is also a standard for language teaching in some other countries. In English we call it Mandarin. In China they call it "pu tong hua" or "common to everybody speech." In Taiwan they call it "Guo yu" or "language of the whole country." They need a standard language because otherwise even though they are in the same country many people could not understand each other.
The Chinese language is like a big tree. The base of the tree started thousands of years ago. It now has several main limbs. Some people call "just a branch" what other people call a main limb, so you can say there are six or seven main limbs. Each of these main limbs splits off into branches about the way there are branches of English spoken in Great Britain, the United States, Australia, India, and so forth. Line the Chinese limbs up by number of speakers and we get: Mandarin, the language spoken in an area centering on Shanghai, the language spoken in Guangdong province (Cantonese), the language spoken mostly in Fujian province (but also by many speakers in Taiwan), the language spoken mostly in Hunan province, a language that is historically that of a refugee group and so not so closely concentrated in any one area in south-east China (it is called "Hakka" or "guest family" speech), and a language spoken in an area that centers on Jiangxi province. Just as the Romance languages all come from the area around Rome and are based on Latin, the Chinese languages all have some common source, so they keep many common things among them.
Chinese is used by the Han people in China and other groups who have come into China and think of themselves as Chinese. Chinese is almost always written in Chinese characters. They are symbols that have meaning, called logograms. They also give some indication of pronunciation. But just as "Xavier" sounds very different in English (ex-aye-vee-er), French (za-vee-aye), and Spanish (hah-veer), the same character can get very different pronunciations among the seven main limbs of Chinese, or even sometimes from branch to branch. Since Chinese characters have been around for at least 3500 years, it is no wonder that people in places far from each other would say them differently, just as "1, 2, 3" can be read differently in different languages.
Chinese people needed to write down pronunciations in dictionaries. Chinese does not have an alphabet, so how to write down sounds was a big problem in the beginning. Nowadays the Mandarin language uses Hanyu pinyin to represent the sounds in Roman letters.
All the Chinese languages (or dialects) uses tones. This means that they use high and low pitches to help make differences in meaning clear. Chinese does not have very many syllables. For instance, the words for "mother," "hemp," "horse," "scold," and a kind of question-mark word put at the end of sentences to make them into questions are all pronounced "ma" in Mandarin. So for "mother" you say "ma" high and level. For "hemp" you say "ma" starting low and ending high." For "horse" you say "ma" starting fairly high, dipping very low, and then going back up again. For "scold" you say "ma" starting high and ending low. Then to make a question out of a statement you add "ma," but you keep it very soft and short, and about on the same level. Mandarin has "first tone," "second tone," "third tone," "fourth tone," and "neutral tone." Other Chinese languages have more tones, some as many as nine.
