Electronics
Electronics is the study and use of electrical parts and circuits for useful purposes.
The main parts, also called electronic components, that are used in electronics are resistors, capacitors, coils of wire called inductors, integrated circuits, connection wires and circuit boards. Older electronics used glass or metal vacuum tubes to control the flow of electricity through circuits. With these components one flow of electricity can be used to change another and so they are important in amplifiers and switches. By the late 1960's and early 1970's the transistor, a semiconductor, began replacing vacuum tubes. Transistors can be made much smaller than vacuum tubes and they can work using less energy. At about the same time, integrated circuits (smaller semiconductor circuits that have a large numbers of very small transistors placed on very thin slices of silicon) became commonly used Integrated circuits made it possible to reduce the number of parts needed to make electronic products and made the products much more cheaper but helpful.
People interested in physics study how and why these electronic components work. By their studies they are able to discover, invent, or improve electronic components. Other people design and construct electronic circuits for useful purposes. These people are electronic engineers. Electronic engineers work in the electrical, electronics and computer engineering fields. Often the electronics need software to do their job, even if it is not a full computer. Software engineers write the software (sometimes called embedded software or firmware) for the device.
Most electronic systems fall into one of these two categories:
Processing and distribution of information. These are communications systems.
Conversion and distribution of energy. These are control systems.
One way of looking at an electronic system is to separate it into three parts:
Inputs - Electrical or mechanical sensors (or transducers), which take signals (in the form of temperature, pressure, etc.) from the physical world and convert them into current and voltage signals.
Signal processing circuits - These consist of electronic components connected together to manipulate, interpret and transform the information contained in the signals.
Outputs - Actuators or other devices (also transducers) that transform current and voltage signals back into useful physical form.
Take as an example a television set. A television set's input is a broadcast signal received from an antenna, or a wire cable provided by a cable television vendor. Signal processing circuits inside the television set use the brightness, colour, and sound information contained in the received signal to control the television set's output devices. The display output device may be a cathode ray tube (CRT) or a plasma or liquid crystal display screen. The audio output device might be a magnetically driven audio speaker. The display output devices convert the signal processing circuits' brightness and colour information into the visible image displayed on a screen. The audio output device converts the processed sound information into sounds that can be heard by listeners.
Analysis of a circuit/network involves knowing the input and the signal processing circuit, and finding out the output. Knowing the input and output and finding out or designing the signal processing part is called as synthesis.
