Electricity
Electricity occurs when electric charge flows. It is an energy source which we use to power machines.
We see electricity when the number of electrons an atom has are either more than usual or less than usual. If the electrons stay where they are, the atom that has too many or too few electrons will attract or sometimes repel other atoms. If the electrons move from where there are too many to where there are too few, then we will see a flow of electrons, an electrical current.
There is electricity in nature as well as electricity that is human-made. We see electricity in nature as lightning, and as the way some things attract each other and stick together.
Scientists have found we can make electricity if we pass a magnet close to a metal wire, or if we put the right chemicals in a jar with two different kinds of metal rods. We can also make static electricity by rubbing two things, for instance a wool cap and a plastic ruler, together. This may make a spark.
Scientists have observed that electricity can flow like water from one place to another, either as a spark or as a current in a metal. They now know that all matter has an electric charge, but this is mostly cancelled out by the presence of matter with an opposite charge. We only see an effect when there is too much or too little electric charge in one place so that it is not cancelled out.
Since the nineteenth century, electricity has been used in every part of our lives. Until then, it was just a curiosity or a force of nature seen in a thunderstorm.
People make most our electric energy in generators. The biggest generators are in power stations. Some of our electricity comes from photovoltaic cells or from batteries.
Electricity arrives at our homes through wires from the places where it is made. It is used by electric lamps for producing light, electric heaters to produce heat, etc. It is also used by many devices such as washing machines, electric cookers, etc. for doing work. In factories, electricity is used for running machines and computers.
The people who deal with electricity and electrical devices in our homes and factories are called "electricians".
