Latin
Latin is an old language that was spoken by the Romans and others. People do not write or speak Latin very much anymore. Being an extinct language without native speakers, it does not change. However, many students around the world study it in school. All Romance languages were developed from Latin. Speakers of Spanish, Italian, French, Portuguese, Romanian and other Romance languages may understand some Latin words.
Latin is the language of the Vatican. People in the Roman Catholic Church sometimes use Latin for communication (if they have different mother tongues) and sometimes in ceremonies.
Latin is also used by zoologists and botanists to name and describe every new species (type of plant or animal). Plants and animals are usually named in writing related to zoology and botany, by giving a Latin name alongside the name in a modern language. The Latin name is the one that has a precise, agreed definition. Many other words used in science and medicine were created from Latin words, or are Latin words.
There were two types of Latin, Classical Latin and Vulgar Latin. Classical Latin was the kind of Latin used by the educated Romans and is the one used by the Roman Catholic Church and studied by many students around the world. Vulgar Latin was the more common spoken variety used by the Romans.
Latin was the most important language in most of Europe in the Middle Ages. It was taught in many European schools, and all universities used Latin as the teaching language. Latin began to lose its importance in the Reformation, but it was still often used by authors of scientific books and encyclopedias. Until about 1900 many universities accepted dissertations written in Latin.
Some languages spoken today came from the Latin language. Those languages are called Romance languages. The five largest Romance languages are French, Romanian, Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish. Other Indo-European languages are related to Latin. The Romance languages are very close to each other, and it is possible for the speakers of one Romance language to understand another to at least some extent. For example, speakers of Portuguese can well understand Spanish. It can be said that the Romance languages are modern dialects of Latin.
