Schizophrenia
Schizophrenia is a mental disorder that may cause delusions, paranoia, hallucinations, disordered thinking and behaviour and catatonia. The symptoms usually begin between the ages of 16-30.
The word schizophrenia comes from two Greek words that mean to split and mind because there is a 'split' between what's going on in their minds and what's happening in reality. “Schizophrenia” is commonly misunderstood to mean that an affected persons has a "split personality". A person with schizophrenia may hear voices which sound as if they are coming from different people, the person with schizophrenia however does not change between different personalities; they have only one. The condition in which a person has multiple personalities is dissociative identity disorder.
Schizophrenia has many different symptoms and not everyone with schizophrenia has all of them. For this reason, some scientists think that schizophrenia is actually many separate diseases that have some of the same symptoms. Schizophrenic "delusions" are actual perceptions that occur in or near the auditory system of the brain. The brain can not tell them apart from normal sounds that are heard. This is not yet fully understood by science. We can not say whether a schizophrenic person is hearing wavelengths other than normal or their own imagination.
There are many risk factors that might cause a person to develop schizophrenia. They include genetics; the disorder is known to run in families, and environmental factors which affect a developing fetus, such as viruses, oxygen deprivation and poor nutrition.
People with schizophrenia might also have other mental health disorders, including depression, anxiety and drug abuse. They often have problems functioning in society, and have difficulty maintaining stable employment. However there are a small number of people with schizophrenia that are able to manage their symptoms and have earned college degrees and professional careers such as Elyn. R. Saks, a law professor at the University of Southern California and a published author.
Treatment of schizophrenia may include medication to help treat the symptoms, different types of psychotherapy, such as cognitive-behavioral therapy and various cognitive rehabilitation therapies such as Cognitive Remediation Therapy to help with the cognitive deficits associated with the disorder, which can be severe.
