Military
The military is the group or groups of people that are given power to defend something (mostly a country). They are armed, so they are called the armed forces. The military protects its country by defending it from the armed forces of enemies, if there is a war. The military can also be ordered by the government of the country to attack another country. The word "military" comes from Latin miles, warrior.
There are many jobs to do in a military. Some jobs are for fighting and some are for other work to support the military. Some things people do in the military are use weapons, drive vehicles, and repair weapons. Other people in the military learn how to fly aircraft, pilot ships, or repair engines. People in the military usually wear clothes called a uniform. In some places, especially where there may be combat, a uniform often comes in a camouflage pattern which is designed to make the person hard to see in the forest or desert.
There are two ways to join the military. In many countries, people join the military because they want to. In other countries, there are laws that some people have to be in the military, even if they do not want to be. This is called the draft or conscription. It usually depends on age and physical fitness. People who have been in the military but have left or retired are called “veterans”. People who have been in military and now work in civilian life, but are ready be called back to service, are called reservists.
The military of a country is usually divided into different branches organizations that do different kinds of work. These branches usually are:
Army (land) – A military force of soldiers mainly on land or driving in land vehicles. They also use helicopters.
Navy (sea) – A military force that uses ships and boats. They also sometimes have planes. People in a navy are called sailors unless they are officers or pilots.
Air force (air) – A military force that uses mainly airplanes.
Sometimes the military has more branches that do more specialized work. For example, in the United States and United Kingdom there are:
Marines – Military forces that serve on ships, but are also trained to fight on land when needed. Their main job is to attack by landing on enemy beaches. They work closely with a navy, but are not sailors. They may also have their own boats, planes, and helicopters.
Some big countries even have small units which perform special actions which are very difficult. They are called special forces.
There are also mercenaries, soldiers who fight just for pay and have little loyalty to whomever might hire them, and private military contractors (PMC), which are under the command of a company (civilian company). The Medieval Italian condottieri were a historical example of PMCs. A warlord may have a private army, which are often no better than common gangsters or criminals.
